# Voting - Election Event Logging CDF Specification

This directory holds election event logging specification common data format and related information and files that are being created by NIST and collaborators.  

The election event logging specification is for election event logs that are produced by election devices used in U.S. states and territories.  The logs contain information generated by voting-related applications such as election management systems (EMS), electronic pollbooks, ballot marking devices, ballot scanners, or other vote-capture applications that are operating on the election devices.  The sorts of information logged includes information required in the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG), however manufacturers may include additional information in the logs.
The purpose of this specification is to provide a concise, interoperable XML format for manufacturers to integrate into their voting equipment and for election offices, researchers, testing laboratories and other groups to use in their own software.  The advantages of using this specification include:
 - Election logs are in the same, defined format regardless of device manufacturer.
 - Manufacturers can use the same, defined format for defining event codes and other information that may be specific to their own equipment.
 - Analyzing election logs produced by different types of equipment and different manufacturers is made significantly easier.

Contact [John P. Wack](mailto:john.wack@nist.gov) for questions and more information.
