# Voting - Election Results Reporting CDF Specification

This directory holds NIST SP 1500-100 election results reporting specification common data format and related information and files that are being created by NIST and collaborators.   

The SP 1500-100 specification is comprehensive and detailed in its coverage of election results-related data and at the same time very flexible, able to accommodate election scenarios used throughout the United States.  It contains a UML (Unified Modeling Language) model, a derived XML (eXtensible Markup Language) schema, usage information and guidance, and background information.

The specification supports three different election scenarios:
1. Pre-election.  The period prior to an election, for reporting pre-election data from a jurisdiction but not yet complete information about any election.2. Election.  The period during which an election is being conducted and election results reports are produced.  The reports include aggregated results data or more detailed, precinct-level reporting, depending on the capabilities of the reporting jurisdiction.3. Post-election.  The period after the close of polls when more detailed election results reports are produced with options for precinct reporting, type of ballot, and type of device.The XML schema associated with this specification is derived from a UML model that defines the types, structure, and interrelationships of geopolitical geography across the U.S.  The model was designed to accommodate multiple types of contests and their many variations, and to provide the capability to report on these contests from higher aggregate levels down to very fine levels of detail, including:
 - Reporting by precinct and splits of precincts; - Reporting by ballot type, e.g., absentee, election day; and - Reporting by device type and specific voting device.Contact [John P. Wack](mailto:john.wack@nist.gov) for questions and more information.
